---
title: "Earth Overshoot Day"
published: false
categories:
  - sustainability
  - ecological footprint

tags:
  - sustainability
  - ecological footprint
date: 2022-08-21 00:02 +0100
---
Coming in a bit late...but did you know that the Earth Overshoot Day this year was on July 28th?
This day marks the date when humanity has used up all the biological resources that the Earth regenerates throughout the year. From now on, we are consuming resources that are actually meant for future generations!
Earth Overshoot Day is computed by dividing the planet’s biocapacity (the amount of ecological resources Earth is able to generate that year), by humanity’s Ecological Footprint (humanity’s demand for that year), and multiplying by 365, the number of days in a year:

(Earth’s Biocapacity / Humanity’s Ecological Footprint) x 365 = Earth Overshoot Day 
(<a href="https://www.overshootday.org/about-earth-overshoot-day">About Earth Overshoot Day</a>)

Thinking about the overshoot is very overwhelming for me, especially seeing the planet suffer from climate change with extreme drought around Europe right now. 
If we want to inhabit this beautiful Earth a little longer, there is only one right thing to do: Take action!

It probably boils down to making informed decicisions.
I try to make informed decisions with my lifestyle and consumption realizing that there's a huge joy in sharing and recycling things...but it's not always black and white and I am quite conflicted in many things.

For example, I grew up in an asian household, so I've always seen meat and fish as an integral part of my diet. It's very hard for me to constraint in that matter but I try to eat less meat and if I eat meat I pay attention to eat bio meat.
Also, living in beautiful Cologne, I also don't own a car and usually go by bike or public transport to get around. 




Please don't judge the hell out of me...I know it's somewhat a sensitive topic and never a easy discussion.

I invite you to discover solutions of how to reduce your carbon footprint on this very inspiring page: <a href="https://www.overshootday.org/power-of-possibility/">Power of Possibility</a>

Of course, the greatest potential for large-scale impact lies with governments and businesses to align their policies and strategies with the planet's ecological limits, but we do have more power than we realize! Let's help the planet thrive and move back the date of Earth Overshoot Day :)